Methods

1) Defining and Calling Methods= A method in Ruby is a set of expressions that returns a value. With methods, one can organize their code into subroutines that can be easily invoked from other areas of their program. Methods are defined using the keyword def followed by the method name. Method parameters are specified between parentheses following the method name. The method body is enclosed by this definition on the top and the word end on the bottom. By convention method names that consist of multiple words have each word separated by an underscore.

2) Variable Scope in Methods= Scope defines where in a program a variable is accessible. Ruby has four types of variable scope, local, global, instance and class. In addition, Ruby has one constant type. 

3) Arguments= Command-line arguments are passed to the Ruby program by the shell, the program the excepts commands (such as bash)on the terminal. On the command-line, any text following the name of the script is considered a command-line argument. Separated by spaces, each word or string will be passed as a separate argument to the Ruby program. 

4) Argument Default Value= In Ruby you can supply a default value for an argument. This means that if a value for the argument isn’t supplied, the default value will be used instead.

5) Return Value= A method in Ruby is a set of expressions that returns a value. With methods, one can organize their code into subroutines that can be easily invoked from other areas of their code. Return Value methods return the value of the last statement executed.

6) Operators= In Ruby operations consist of values on which the calculation is to be performed and an operator which dictates the operation to be performed. 
		i. Assignment Operators= The '=' assignment operator does not make any changes to the value before it is assigned to the variable. A number of assignment operators are available, however, that perform arithmetic on the value before assigning it to the variable. These are essentially combined arithmetic and assignment operators.

		ii. Math Operators= Ruby provides a number of basic operators for performing arithmetic. (Addition, Subtraction, Multiplication, Division, Exponent, Modulus)

		iii. Comparison Operators= Comparison operators are used to check for equality between two values. Ruby provides a number of such operators (<=>, ==, <, >, >=, <=, !=)